XRDDEV-1430 alternatives for using IP addresses in service (#59)
nordic-institute/X-Road-Security-Server-sidecar: doc/kubernetes_security_server_sidecar_user_guide.md

      * [4.5.6.1 Prerequisites](#4561-prerequisites)
      * [4.5.6.2 Primary Pod installation](#4562-primary-pod-installation)
      * [4.5.6.3 Secondary Pods installation](#4563-secondary-pods-installation)

>     * [4.5.7 Load balancer IP or DNS options](#457-load-balancer-ip-or-dns-options)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * [4.5.7 Load Balancer address options](#457-load-balancer-address-options)
```

>        * [4.5.7.1 Use the internal Kubernetes DNS](#4571-use-the-internal-kubernetes-dns)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      * [4.5.7.1 Use the internal Kubernetes DNS](#4571-use-the-internal-kubernetes-dns)
```

>        * [4.5.7.2 Use the assigned Private IP or public DNS name](#4572-use-the-assigned-private-ip-or-public-dns-name)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      * [4.5.7.2 Use the assigned Private IP or public DNS name](#4572-use-the-assigned-private-ip-or-public-dns-name)
```

>        * [4.5.7.3 Set a fixed Private IP](#4573-set-a-fixed-private-ip)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      * [4.5.7.3 Set a fixed Private IP](#4573-set-a-fixed-private-ip)
```

>        * [4.5.7.4 Deploy Kubernetes External DNS](#4574-deploy-kubernetes-external-dns)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      * [4.5.7.4 Deploy Kubernetes External DNS](#4574-deploy-kubernetes-external-dns)
```

TThe Secondary Pods will synchronize the configuration at initialization and through a cron job that runs every minute. Once the configuration is synchronized, the secondary Pods can process the messages independently of the primary one. This means that if the primary Pods crashes, the cron that synchronizes the configuration will fail but the Secondary Pods can continue to process the messages.

#### 4.5.7 Load Balancer address options

> In the described scenario [2.3 Multiple Pods using a Load Balancer](#23-multiple-pods-using-a-load-balancer) the messages will be sent to the Security Server Sidecar Pods through the Load Balancer, the DNS or IP of the Load Balancer must be configured in Security Server address on the Central Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the described scenario [2.3 Multiple Pods using a Load Balancer](#23-multiple-pods-using-a-load-balancer) the messages will be sent to the Security Server Sidecar Pods through the Load Balancer, the DNS or IP of the Load Balancer must be configured in the Security Server address on the Central Server.
```

##### 4.5.7.1 Use the internal Kubernetes DNS

The internal Kubernetes DNS name for the Load Balancer will be &lt;primary DNS&gt; (**reference data: 3.20**). This option is only recommended for developing or testing purposes since this &lt;primary DNS&gt; will only work if the consumer Security Server Sidecar is deployed in the same cluster.

##### 4.5.7.2 Use the assigned Private IP or public DNS name

When a Load Balancer Service it's created, AWS automatically assigns to it a private IP and a public DNS. We can check it by running (**reference Data: 3.1**) checking the properties `CLUSTER-IP`, `EXTERNAL-IP`:
```bash
kubectl get svc -n <namespace name>

NAME                            TYPE           CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP                                                             PORT(S)                                                                                                   AGE
service-sidecar-balancer        LoadBalancer   10.100.160.10   a764b23040d98479f907e9899f730b2d-20635229.eu-west-1.elb.amazonaws.com   5500:31648/TCP,5577:32244/TCP,8080:32451/TCP   17h  
```

> If the consumer Security Server Sidecar it's in the same Network we can use the `CLUSTER-IP`, if not, we must use the `EXTERNAL-IP`. The problem with this approach is that AWS will assign new values to this properties every time that the Load Balancer Service it's recreated, So it will require an update of one of this values in the Central Server configuration each time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the consumer Security Server Sidecar is in the same Network use the `CLUSTER-IP`, otherwise, use the `EXTERNAL-IP`. The problem with this approach is that AWS will assign new values to these properties every time the Load Balancer Service is recreated, so it requires updating this value in the Central Server configuration each time.
```

##### 4.5.7.3 Set a fixed Private IP
It is possible to define a Private IP in the Load Balancer Service deployment by adding the property `clusterIP` (**reference data: 3.17**):

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

[...]
spec:
  type: LoadBalancer
  clusterIP: <load balancer private ip>
[...]
```

> By adding this property, the Load Balancer will keep the same private IP each time it is recreated, the public DNS (`EXTERNAL-IP`) will not and a new one will be assigned each time the Load Balancer is recreated, as with the previous section. If we need to make public the fixed private IP, we can create a new AWS Route 53 record that points to this IP. This solution is only recommend for developing or testing purposes since it's an anti pattern to have fixed IPs in our deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note! This solution is only recommended for development or testing purposes since it's an anti-pattern to have fixed IPs in the Deployment.
By adding this property, the Load Balancer will keep the same private IP each time is recreated. However, the public DNS (`EXTERNAL-IP`) will not and a new one will be assigned each time the Load Balancer is recreated, as with the previous section. If we need to make public the fixed private IP, we can create a new AWS Route 53 record that points to this IP.```

##### 4.5.7.4 Deploy Kubernetes External DNS

> [Kubernetes External DNS](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/external-dns/) makes Kubernetes resources discoverable via public DNS servers. Use AWS Route 53 combine with Kubernetes External DNS will allow us to create a new record in an existing Hosted Zone in AWS Route 53 and it will update this record with the new `EXTERNAL-IP` assigned value each time that the Load Balancer Service is recreated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Kubernetes External DNS](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/external-dns/) makes Kubernetes resources discoverable via public DNS servers. Use AWS Route 53 in combination with Kubernetes External DNS to create a new record in an existing Hosted Zone in AWS Route 53 and update this record with the new `EXTERNAL-IP` assigned value each time that the Load Balancer Service is recreated.
```

> First we need to have an existing AWS Route 53 Hoted zone, if we don't have one we must create it. Then the AWS EKS Cluster role must have the following permissions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create an AWS Route 53 Hosted zone if you don't have one

2. Check that the AWS EKS Cluster role has the following permissions:
```

```
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "route53:ChangeResourceRecordSets"
      ],
      "Resource": [
        "arn:aws:route53:::hostedzone/*"
      ]
    },
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "route53:ListHostedZones",
        "route53:ListResourceRecordSets"
      ],
      "Resource": [
        "*"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

> An example of how to install the Kubernetes External DNS is shown in the manifest below (**reference data: 3.27, 3.28**):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Install the Kubernetes External DNS. You can find an example manifest file below (**reference data: 3.27, 3.28**):
```

      app: external-dns
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: external-dns
    spec:
      serviceAccountName: external-dns
      containers:
      - name: external-dns
        image: k8s.gcr.io/external-dns/external-dns:v0.7.6
        args:
        - --source=service
        - --source=ingress
        - --domain-filter=<hosted zone domain> # will make ExternalDNS see only the hosted zones matching provided domain, omit to process all available hosted zones
        - --provider=aws
        - --policy=upsert-only # would prevent ExternalDNS from deleting any records, omit to enable full synchronization
        - --aws-zone-type=public # only look at public hosted zones (valid values are public, private or no value for both)
        - --registry=txt
        - --txt-owner-id=<hosted zone ID>
      securityContext:
        fsGroup: 65534 # For ExternalDNS to be able to read Kubernetes and AWS token files
```
Note (1): This manifest is for deploying Kubernetes External DNS using AWS Route 53 in a AWS EKS Cluster with RBAC authentication enabled, for more deployment options please check https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/external-dns/#deploying-to-a-cluster.

> Verify that the Kubernetes External DNS is deployed and running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Verify that the Kubernetes External DNS is deployed and running:
```

```
kubectl get pods

NAME                                       READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
external-dns-67c88b5577-lhgzt              1/1     Running     0          20h
```

> Once the the Kubernetes External DNS, modify the Secondary Pod deployment manifest adding the external-dns annotation (**reference data: 3.1, 3.15, 3.27, 3.29**):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Modify the Secondary Pod Deployment manifest adding the external-dns annotation (**reference data: 3.1, 3.15, 3.27, 3.29**):
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

[...]
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: <service name>
  annotations:
    service.beta.Kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-type: nlb
    external-dns.alpha.kubernetes.io/hostname: <external DNS name>.<hosted zone domain>
  labels:
    run: security-server-sidecar-balancer-run
  namespace: <namespace name>
spec:
  type: LoadBalancer
[...]
```

> Apply the manifest, and then, after a couple of minutes, a new record with the name &lt;external DNS name&gt; should be created on the AWS Route 53 Hosted zone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Apply the manifest. After a couple of minutes, a new record with the name &lt;external DNS name&gt; should be created on the AWS Route 53 Hosted zone.
```

> This is the recommend option from production environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the recommended option from a production environment.
```

NAME                            TYPE           CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP                                                             PORT(S)                                                                                                   AGE
service-sidecar-balancer        LoadBalancer   10.100.160.10   a764b23040d98479f907e9899f730b2d-20635229.eu-west-1.elb.amazonaws.com   5500:31648/TCP,5577:32244/TCP,8080:32451/TCP   17h  
```
If the consumer Security Server Sidecar is in the same Network we could use the `CLUSTER-IP`, otherwise, use the `EXTERNAL-IP`. The problem with this approach is that AWS will assign new values to these properties every time the Load Balancer Service is recreated, so it requires updating this value in the Central Server configuration each time.

##### 4.5.7.3 Set a fixed Private IP
It is possible to define a Private IP in the Load Balancer Service deployment by adding the property `clusterIP` (**reference data: 3.17**):
```yaml
[...]
spec:
  type: LoadBalancer
  clusterIP: <load balancer private ip>
[...]
```
Note! This solution is only recommended for development or testing purposes since it's an anti-pattern to have fixed IPs in the Deployment.

> By adding this property, the Load Balancer will keep the same private IP each time is recreated. However, the public DNS (`EXTERNAL-IP`) will not and a new one will be assigned each time the Load Balancer is recreated, as with the previous section. If we need to make public the fixed private IP, we can create a new AWS Route 53 record that points to this IP.```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By adding this property, the Load Balancer will keep the same private IP each time is recreated. However, the public DNS (`EXTERNAL-IP`) will not and a new one will be assigned each time the Load Balancer is recreated, as with the previous section. If we need to make public the fixed private IP, we can create a new AWS Route 53 record that points to this IP.
```
